Doc refactoring > README.md and installation.md (#673)
sezanzeb/input-remapper: readme/installation.md

# Installation

Below are installation instructions for certain distributions.  If your
distribution is not included, use the <a
href="#manual-installation">Manual installation</a> instructions.

We welcome contributors to maintain missing distributions.

Please note that the distribution package may lag with the latest bug
fixes.  Use the <a href="#manual-installation">Manual installation</a>
method to get the latest bug fixes.

## Manjaro/Arch

```bash
yay -S input-remapper-git
sudo systemctl restart input-remapper
sudo systemctl enable input-remapper
```

## Ubuntu/Debian
Get the latest version:

```bash
sudo apt install git python3-setuptools gettext
git clone https://github.com/sezanzeb/input-remapper.git
cd input-remapper && ./scripts/build.sh
sudo apt install -f ./dist/input-remapper-2.0.0.deb
```

Or alternatively, use one of the following methods.

### Install using a .deb file

1. Download the `.deb` file from the
[release page](https://github.com/sezanzeb/input-remapper/releases)
2. and install it manually replacing `XXX` with the current version:
```bash

> sudo apt install -f /path/to/input-remapper-XXX.deb

Reviewer: Whenever I make a new release, I do a global search for the old version and replace the version-string everywhere, so there is no need for the XXX placeholder.

# Installation

Below are installation instructions for certain distributions as well as
<a href="#manual-installation">Manual installation</a> instructions.

We welcome contributors to maintain missing distributions.

Please note that distributions may lag with the latest bug fixes.  To
get the latest bug fixes, use the <a href="#manual-installation">Manual

> installation</a> method.

Reviewer: "lag", I have never seen that word used in that context

Reviewer: > "more or less" is unfortunately incorrect because it is stating that a distribution may never have current packages.

Which is why my proposal says "distributions **may** provide".

> I don't think we want to rewrite based on exposure to language.

I still don't like using lag like this. 

Please use "Please note that distributions may provide more or less outdated packages."

## Manjaro/Arch

```bash
yay -S input-remapper-git
sudo systemctl restart input-remapper
sudo systemctl enable input-remapper
```

Please note that the above version may lag from the latest version.  See
the <a href="#manual-installation">Manual installation</a> method to

> install the latest version.

Reviewer: No, all `-git` packages from the AUR pull from the latest git main. This is always the latest version with all features

Reviewer: Also, the comment about the version "lag" just repeats what is written above

## Ubuntu/Debian

To get the latest version, use the following method:

```bash
sudo apt install git python3-setuptools gettext
git clone https://github.com/sezanzeb/input-remapper.git
cd input-remapper && ./scripts/build.sh
sudo apt install -f ./dist/input-remapper-2.0.0.deb
```

The next two methods may result in the installed version not having the
latest bug fixes.

### Install using a .deb file

1. Download the `.deb` file from the
[release page](https://github.com/sezanzeb/input-remapper/releases)

> 2. Manually install it

Reviewer: Add the appropriate command for step 2, otherwise this is not any help for people without debian experience.

`sudo apt install -f /path/to/input-remapper-2.0.0.deb`

### Distribution repository

input-remapper is available on [Debian](https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/input-remapper)
and [Ubuntu](https://packages.ubuntu.com/jammy/input-remapper)

> distributions.  Use your package manager to install the software.

Reviewer: Add commands: `sudo apt update && sudo apt install input-remapper`

## Manual installation

Ensure that the following dependencies are met:

- `python3-evdev` ≥1.3.0
- `gtksourceview4`
- `python3-devel`
- `python3-pydantic`
- `python3-pydbus`

Python packages need to be installed globally for the service to be able
to import them.  Do not use `--user`.

`Conda` can cause problems due to changed python paths and versions.

### Install method #1

```bash
sudo pip install evdev -U  # If newest version not in distros repo
sudo pip uninstall key-mapper  # In case the old package is still installed
sudo pip install --no-binary :all: git+https://github.com/sezanzeb/input-remapper.git
sudo systemctl enable input-remapper
sudo systemctl restart input-remapper
```

### Install method #2

Use this installation method if the above method is problematic:

```bash

> # Obtain the software:
> mkdir -p ~/src
> cd ~/src
> git clone https://github.com/sezanzeb/input-remapper.git
> 
> # Install
> cd ~/src/input-remapper
> sudo python3 setup.py install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/sezanzeb/input-remapper.git
cd input-remapper
./scripts/setup.sh install
```

```

# Migrating beta configs to version 2

> <i><b>Warning:</b>  the following will remove any existing <b>new</b>
> configurations.</i>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<b>Warning:</b> the following commands will overwrite any new presets of
version 2.0.0 or later.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<b>Warning:</b> the following commands will remove any new presets of
version 2.0.0 or later.
```
